.TH TICKO 1 "January 2026" "ticko 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ticko \- terminal-based TODO manager with CLI and TUI modes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ticko
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B ticko
.I command
.RI [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ticko
is a terminal-based TODO and task management tool that provides both
an interactive terminal user interface (TUI) and a command-line interface (CLI).

When run without arguments,
.B ticko
starts in TUI mode. When invoked with a command, it operates in CLI mode
to allow scripting and automation.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " " \fIPATH\fR
Use a custom TODO data file instead of the default location.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list
List all TODO items.
.TP
.B list \-\-completed
List only completed TODO items.
.TP
.B list \-\-pending
List only pending TODO items.

.TP
.BI add\  TITLE
Add a new TODO with the given title.
.TP
.BI add\  TITLE\  \-d\  DESCRIPTION
Add a TODO with a description.
.TP
.BI add\  TITLE\  \-t\  DATETIME
Add a TODO with a due date.
The date format is
.BR "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM" .

.TP
.BI done\  ID
Mark the TODO item with the given ID as completed.
.TP
.BI undone\  ID
Mark the TODO item with the given ID as not completed.
.TP
.BI remove\  ID
Remove the TODO item permanently.

.TP
.BI edit\  ID
Edit an existing TODO.
.TP
.BI edit\  ID\  \-d\  DESCRIPTION
Edit the description of a TODO.
.TP
.BI edit\  ID\  \-t\  DATETIME
Edit the due date of a TODO.

.SH CONFIGURATION
.B ticko
can be configured using a configuration file.
Configuration values are typically shell-style key-value pairs.

.TP
.I /etc/ticko.conf
System-wide configuration file. This file is read first, if present.
.TP
.I ~/.config/ticko/ticko.conf
User-specific configuration file. Values defined here override system-wide
settings.

Common configuration options may include default data file paths,
UI preferences, and behavior toggles.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables influence the behavior of
.B ticko:

.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
If set, user configuration files are searched relative to this directory.
Otherwise,
.I ~/.config/
is used.

.SH TUI KEY BINDINGS

.SS Navigation
.TP
.B j , Down
Move selection down by one item.
.TP
.B k , Up
Move selection up by one item.
.TP
.B g , Home
Go to the first item.
.TP
.B G , End
Go to the last item.
.TP
.B PageUp
Scroll up by one page.
.TP
.B PageDown
Scroll down by one page.
.TP
.B H
Go to the first visible item on screen.
.TP
.B L
Go to the last visible item on screen.

.SS Actions
.TP
.B a , o
Add a new TODO item.
.TP
.B x , Space
Toggle completion state of the selected item.
.TP
.B D
Delete the selected TODO item.
.TP
.B e
Edit the description of the selected item.
.TP
.B d
Set or edit the due date of the selected item.
.TP
.B t
Edit the title of the selected item.

.SS Search
.TP
.B /
Start search mode.
.TP
.B n
Jump to the next search result.
.TP
.B N
Jump to the previous search result.

.SS General
.TP
.B s
Save all changes.
.TP
.B r
Refresh the interface.
.TP
.B Enter
Select or confirm the current action.
.TP
.B Escape
Cancel the current action or close dialogs.
.TP
.B ?
Show the help overlay.
.TP
.B q
Quit the application.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/ticko.conf
System-wide configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.config/ticko/
User-specific configuration and data directory.

.SH AUTHOR
Mehrad Pooryoussof,
Abolfazl Tavakolian,
MohammadHossein MaarefVand,
AmirHossein Nasrollahi.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bash (1)
